The Concept of Attacks

The concept is based on four categories that occur for each vulnerability. First, we have a Source that performs the specific request to a Process where the vulnerability gets triggered. Each process has a specific set of Privileges with which it is executed. Each process has a task with a specific goal or Destination to either compute new data or forward it. However, the individual and unique specifications under these categories may differ from service to service.
Every task and piece of information follows a specific pattern, a cycle, which we have deliberately made linear. This is because the Destination does not always serve as a Source and is therefore not treated as a source of a new task.
For any task to come into existence at all, it needs an idea, information (Source), a planned process for it (Processes), and a specific goal (Destination) to be achieved. Therefore, the category of Privileges is necessary to control information processing appropriately.



Source
Information Source	Description
Code	This means that the already executed program code results are used as a source of information. These can come from different functions of a program.
Libraries	A library is a collection of program resources, including configuration data, documentation, help data, message templates, prebuilt code and subroutines, classes, values, or type specifications.
Config	Configurations are usually static or prescribed values that determine how the process processes information.
APIs	The application programming interface (API) is mainly used as the interface of programs for retrieving or providing information.
User Input	If a program has a function that allows the user to enter specific values used to process the information accordingly, this is the manual entry of information by a person.
The source is, therefore, the source that is exploited for vulnerabilities. It does not matter which protocol is used because HTTP header injections can be manipulated manually, as can buffer overflows. The source for this can therefore be categorized as Code. So let us take a closer look at the pattern template based on one of the latest critical vulnerabilities that most of us have heard of.


Process
Process Components	Description
PID	The Process-ID (PID) identifies the process being started or is already running. Running processes have already assigned privileges, and new ones are started accordingly.
Input	This refers to the input of information that could be assigned by a user or as a result of a programmed function.
Data processing	The hard-coded functions of a program dictate how the information received is processed.
Variables	The variables are used as placeholders for information that different functions can further process during the task.
Logging	During logging, certain events are documented and, in most cases, stored in a register or a file. This means that certain information remains in the system.

The Process is about processing the information forwarded from the source. These are processed according to the intended task determined by the program code. For each task, the developer specifies how the information is processed. This can occur using classes with different functions, calculations, and loops. The variety of possibilities for this is as diverse as the number of developers in the world. Accordingly, most of the vulnerabilities lie in the program code executed by the process.



Privileges
Privileges are present in any system that controls processes. These serve as a type of permission that determines what tasks and actions can be performed on the system. In simple terms, it can be compared to a bus ticket. If we use a ticket intended for a particular region, we will be able to use the bus, and otherwise, we will not. These privileges (or figuratively speaking, our tickets) can also be used for different means of transport, such as planes, trains, boats, and others. In computer systems, these privileges serve as control and segmentation of actions for which different permissions, controlled by the system, are needed. Therefore, the rights are checked based on this categorization when a process needs to fulfill its task. If the process satisfies these privileges and conditions, the system approves the action requested. We can divide these privileges into the following areas:

Privileges	Description
System	These privileges are the highest privileges that can be obtained, which allow any system modification. In Windows, this type of privilege is called SYSTEM, and in Linux, it is called root.
User	User privileges are permissions that have been assigned to a specific user. For security reasons, separate users are often set up for particular services during the installation of Linux distributions.
Groups	Groups are a categorization of at least one user who has certain permissions to perform specific actions.
Policies	Policies determine the execution of application-specific commands, which can also apply to individual or grouped users and their actions.
Rules	Rules are the permissions to perform actions handled from within the applications themselves.


Destination
Every task has at least one purpose and goal that must be fulfilled. Logically, if any data set changes were missing or not stored or forwarded anywhere, the task would be generally unnecessary. The result of such a task is either stored somewhere or forwarded to another processing point. Therefore we speak here of the Destination where the changes will be made. Such processing points can point either to a local or remote process. Therefore, at the local level, local files or records may be modified by the process or be forwarded to other local services for further use. However, this does not exclude the possibility that the same process could reuse the resulting data too. If the process is completed with the data storage or its forwarding, the cycle leading to the task's completion is closed.
Destination	Description
Local	The local area is the system's environment in which the process occurred. Therefore, the results and outcomes of a task are either processed further by a process that includes changes to data sets or storage of the data.
Network	The network area is mainly a matter of forwarding the results of a process to a remote interface. This can be an IP address and its services or even entire networks. The results of such processes can also influence the route under certain circumstances.


